That going to the chancellor's office would
require hour upon hour of work and going far beyond
the eight to five format. And I felt that Peggy,
with one of her sons becoming a senior in high
school that year, would have difficulty
in keeping the clock calendar that would be
essential in the chancellor's office.
Also, Peggy had been with the College of Education
since its beginning. and was in fact the thread
that runs so true through much of the college's
activities and would help the new dean, whoever he
or she might be, in a fashion that would be
essential.
In the president's, in the chancellor's office
when I arrived,
There was an elder Raoul, an assistant to the
chancellor,
who again was a veteran on the campus and knew the
history of the campus and all of its political
machinations very, very well. She was a big help. A
Shirley Lightfoot was a secretary, and her
secretarial skills were just
unmatched. I don't know of anyone who could do
correspondence as rapidly and as accurately as
she kept it. There was another young lady.
a graduate of
St. Edward's in Austin.
I think she's now with the vice president or vice
chancellor for agriculture, Patricia Gehring.
Again, a very talented young woman. That was in the
immediate office staff. Surrounding me, other
than Bob Cherry and Clyde Freeman and Peel, was
also on the chancellor's staff, James Bond, the
attorney for the system. James had the advantage
of knowing the of knowing the area of education
quite well. He had had actually more experience
before coming on board as attorney for the system.
He had had more experience in public education
than he had in higher education. To my knowledge, I
know that he had been a member of the Board of
Trustees of the Navasota School District. And Jim
was a big help. I look upon Jim as sort of a student of
Clyde Freeman's. Clyde Freeman taught James
an immense amount of background information
regarding the Attorney General's office,
opinions of the Attorney General.
budget procedures, the permanent and available
university funds, and James was a good student. He
learned them well. They were the main ones. Some of
your student products in whom you take great
pride, like Brian Cole and others. Yes, yes. My
number one
choice for a student who who succeeded admirably
was a chap by the name of Jack Humphreys. Jack came
to me as an assistant registrar at Sam Houston
State University. I had a call from the president
of that institution saying Frank Have a young man
over here, assistant registrar. He has a master's
degree in history from Baylor. Really an
outstanding scholar and student. He's far above
being an assistant registrar. He needs to get his
doctorate degree and do things other than what
he's doing now. Can you help him? I said, have him
come over and visit with me. He did. Tremendously
impressive chap. Articulate, poised.
knowledgeable, highly intelligent, excellent
vocabulary,
wrote well.
I asked him to immediately to be a graduate
assistant in my office. He accepted, later on
became assistant dean, and then associate dean,
and by the time he finished his PhD degree, he was
truly a remarkable person. I think Jack, had not
only my high praise, but he was highly respected by
the heads of departments in the college, both of
liberal arts
and of education.
Jack was astute, tactful, diplomatic in his
relationships with the administrators in the
colleges and was a tremendously big help. Went
back to Sam Houston as dean of their liberal arts
section. Stayed a couple of three years there,
then was chosen by Southern Ross State University
as president. Operated very effectively in that
office. Revived that institution giving program
by rejuvenating its development foundation and
was very successful there. Sadly enough, Jack had
cancer. And after a year's stay in Houston on leave
from Sol Ross, he and his wife and family moved to
Houston with him. He had a wife and two sons. Jack
died of the cancer. Sad, sad, sad young man.
Another choice of mine was another lad who made
college presidency, and this was David Johnson, a
Negro from Tyler, who became president of Texas
College in Tyler, a Methodist-related church,
school, small liberal arts college, struggling
for survival. David did well, and strangely
enough, too, during
his
term as president, He was identified as a cancer
patient and died of that disease. So that was sad.
Another one whom I would point to with great pride
is Linda Whitson. Linda was an outstanding woman
student in the graduate program. Thorough,
statistically
very sharp, an attractive lady, quite handsome in
fact, always so well-groomed, articulate, but
quiet. There wasn't an aggressive
inclination, I think, in her makeup, but so
thorough in the things that she did. After she
received her doctorate, I received a call from the
president of the University of Texas at San
Antonio asking me about her. She had applied for a
job over there and was accepted for it and became
vice president at the University of Texas San
Antonio for
business matters, I think.
Well, a phase of business, personnel matters and
things of that nature. I don't think she was the
dollar number cruncher, but the area of personnel
relations, she was there and, as I understand, had
an outstanding record. I would mention those
three as outstanding, along with Brian Cole, who
also was an associate dean. When he finished with
me, he was
from Marlin, Texas.
Brian came to A&M.
It was he who followed Jack Humphries in the
office. And Brian was a veteran of the Vietnamese
operation. His undergraduate work had been done
at the United States Military Academy on the
Hudson, West Point. And just a very, very fine man.
exceptionally well-trained
individual.
Brian was assistant and then a graduate
assistant, then assistant dean, then an
associate dean, and
was simply outstanding in the work which he
performed. Was the immediate past chancellor one
of your doctoral students? Who? The immediate
past chancellor. Oh, Barry Thompson? Barry. Was
he one of your students? No. I have a connection
with Barry, but it was not in a student
relationship. These first four that I've
mentioned, I chaired their doctoral committees.
That's what I perceive you mean by a student.
Right, right. Barry Thompson was, I knew him
primarily as the son of his father. I knew his
father quite well. Tommy Thompson,
superintendent of schools at Kermit, Texas for
many years. A legend among Texas school
administrators. Truly outstanding guy. Barry
had come up through the public education route.
I'd met him along the way several times. and
learned from him during a conversation when he
came to campus that he wanted to complete his
graduate work at A&M. and do a doctorate there with
us. And he says, I've got to find, at that moment, he
was assistant superintendent of schools for the
Waco Independent School District in charge of
their curricular matters, assistant
superintendent for curriculum. And his salary, I
expect, was a pretty good salary at that time. And
he said, Dean Hubert, I simply My family, I would
put my family to an unjustified position
if I asked them to try to live on the salary of a
graduate assistant. So if you have anything in the
future that you see developing that you could help
me in a job here at A&M, I'd appreciate it. Well, I
knew of his high anxiety to finish the doctorate,
and so there came a time when I was able to upgrade
one of the graduate assistantships associated
with my office to the point that Barry could live on
it for a year
with his family. And he did, and it was through that
that he completed his residency at A&M. He already
was a student, commuting student, but he had to
have a year's residency, and it was my finding him
that position that enabled him to complete that.
So that was my basic association with him. I did not
share his doctoral committee, nor was I a member of
it. But that's the relationship. In your 30 years,
more than 30 years of official relation with Texas
A&M and the A&M system, which directors, and then
their title was changed to regents, deserve the
greatest credit?
Total time at A&M High School, twenty-three
years. Oh, my math wrong. Fifty-nine to
eighty-two. That's right, my math wrong, yeah.
Now,
which regents or directors deserve the greatest
credit? Well, starting with the directors group,
one would first have to place Sterling Evans at the
top of the list, without any doubt.
Although Sterling, I think, had been through the
agricultural degree program at A&M,
nonetheless, he was far ahead of many of his
colleagues on the board in support of a
broad-based,
well-balanced university.
He was just as supportive of engineering, of the
arts and sciences, and of veterinary medicine as
any others, probably more so for the arts and
sciences. He appreciated the essential
necessity of
communication skills, of history, and he was a
great supporter of that realm.
I would also name Dr. Boydle later on as a regent,
who was an outstanding board member along with
Gardner Simons. who at that time was chairman of
the board of tech of Tentaco Corporation, and who
incidentally, I think, had served on the Stanford
California Board of Regents or Trustees, by
whatever name.
In his capacity as chief executive officer of a
major corporation, he brought a new vision and
foresight
to the Board of Regents.
Sam Wittenberg from Amarillo, Texas. I think a
background in the newspaper field. Wittenberg
was a University of Texas graduate.
He was strongly interested in a strongly
based university
with power and
excellence in the humanities and social sciences
and mathematics and physical sciences as was
anyone else.
I would name those as outstanding ones which I
remember. Later on, more in my years as
chancellor, I would have to name John Blocker. As
John Blocker was chief stockholder, chairman of
the board, and president of Blocker Energy
Corporation in Houston, it too was a major
organization. John was outstanding on the board.
as was Dr. John Coleman of Houston, a physician, a
black individual. He was there, I presume, as a
political representative of Prairie View A&M. I
don't know that that's the truth, but he was
interested in Prairie View but not to the
disadvantage of any other institution. John was
an outstanding board member. Al
Davies of Fort Worth, no, of Dallas.
Clyde Wells of Granbury. Clyde held the
chairmanship of the board of,
I guess, directors and regents for a good long
while. Clyde was a manager of a large agricultural
organization in Dallas. Actually, their
agricultural interests were out more in the
Granbury area where his residence was. He was good
on the board and for the board. Quiet,
but effective.
Your proudest accomplishments in relationship
to A&M?
Haskell, it's hard to identify one. Well, it can be
plural.
Among those that I was pleased with the outcome of
were these.
In the first several years development of the
College of Liberal Arts,
Science had broken out because science wanted its
own identity.
Liberal arts, when it achieved its separate
identity, seemed to move forward rapidly,
both in scholarship of faculty, I think, as well as
enrollment of students.
Another accomplishment that I was proud of was my
chairmanship of the Coordinating Committee of
the Century Council. I think that enabled me to
have some inputs into the deliberations of that
organization which moved A&M forward.
Another would be the origination of the honors
program at A&M.
After the big change took place, co-eds admitted,
military no longer required. One day, Dick
Ballinger, a professor of English, visited with
me and said, Dean Hubert, there's been a little
talk in the English department. about the
desirability of starting an honors section in
English. We're getting some outstanding
students, and we'd like to take them a little
faster and further than our ordinary curriculum
would. How would you react to our establishing an
honors program in English?" I said, Dick, it's a
great idea. why don't we do it for the college and
ask other departments if they'd like to join in
establishing honors programs. He said, fine. I
said, well, will you be the faculty sponsor of an
honors program? And he said, yes. And that took off
and was a success, I think.
In the College of Education, I would point to the
accreditation by the college and every one of its
teacher education programs by the National
Council for the Accreditation of Teacher
Education. It's most unusual on a first visit by
this evaluation team from NCATE for that
institution to be approved in every one of its
offerings. from baccalaureate through the
doctorate, and A&M was. And I think that's a case of
where I simply happened to be there when it took
place. We had a great faculty, and they were the key
elements in that accomplishment. But it's one
that I am quite proud of. In the chancellor's
office, Haskell, again, hard to say. I thought my
proposal for the reorganization of the system was
sound in
my single-track way, I guess, of thinking of
things. I still think it was a good thing for the
system, although I
think it would take
the Green Berets in full force armor to make it
feasible again, politically feasible. Those are
some of the things along the way. What's your
favorite Aggie story? Got to be some moment you
remember that you loved. Yes.
My favorite Aggie story is this one. It's used as an
illustration.
during what I call the golden years of A&M, just how
dramatically that institution turned around.
From being recognized by high school students
somewhere out there as a, as a cow college, on
through up to becoming a full-fledged major
university. And it's a story that goes like this.
Education at A&M has changed dramatically. In
fact, over the past 20 or 25 years, it has come full
circle, 180 degree change. For example, at A&M 25
years ago, all the Aggies were telling moron
jokes. And today,
That's my favorite story. If you mean an Aggie joke
story, that's my favorite one. What
advice would you give to the leaders of A&M today
about what the role, I'll use the phrase role and
scope, what advice would you give the leaders of
A&M today, be they board members or
administrators, the role and scope of Texas A&M
University, what should it be?
I would suggest to them that first they should
study carefully the history of the university.
Look at it from day one and over the past 100 and
what, 10, 15 years now, I'm not sure, 114 years.
Find out what brought it from its beginnings to
where it is today. Know something about the
essence of a land-grant college and the fact that
The original premise behind a land-grant college
hasn't been abandoned, but the change in the
nature of our nation
has taken us to the point where a
true college-university type institution must
go far beyond the emphasis upon agriculture and
the mechanical arts. That would be my first
recommendation
for
leaders of the university.
I would suggest next that
That they seek good advice if they are not attuned
to the
various components of a top university.
Seek good advice and know what questions to ask of
whom. Knowing which question to ask and to whom to
address that question is exceedingly important
for administrators, governing board members,
faculty members, and all of us. I think those would
be my two major recommendations. Know the
history, seek good advice, and know what
questions to ask. Okay, one light question and
then two serious questions and we're finished.
The light question is did any students or anybody
else ever try to play any jokes or pranks on you as a
teacher, as an administrator?
Not that I recall. Nobody in class tried to set one
up or anything? No. Okay. All right. Next to last
question. Looking back, what effect has it had on
your life that you came to Texas A&M in 1959?
Well, it's had a...
It's had a very dominant role in
my life after A&M. It
has brought me to a recognition that this
community is an important community. This
university is an important university.
must not take the short view. They
need to look well into the future.